Japan, the land of the rising sun, a nation renowned for its technologically advanced cities, traditional cultural offerings, and immense natural wonders, which together make for one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the world, attracting millions of visitors each year. Surprisingly, however, this level of openness to outsiders is a relatively recent phenomenon in the nation's history. In fact, for well over 200 years, from the 17th to 19th centuries, Japan's borders were firmly closed to any outside visitors whatsoever. This time period, known as Sakoku, bore witness to a flourishing of Japanese culture, rapid economic growth, and dynamic societal developments, which up until that point had never been seen before. As a result, this gifted the nation, with many of the iconic cultural treasures whose legacies have survived to this day. But how did this island nation undergo such a dramatic transition from a period of relative isolation into becoming one of the most developed and open countries in the world today? This is the History of Japan. The archipelago of islands that make up the modern nation of Japan have been inhabited for the best part of 40,000 years, with the first human settlers migrating there from mainland Asia. These early inhabitants brought skills such as agriculture and metalworking with them, which laid the groundwork for the establishment of permanent settlements and eventually the earliest kingdoms. By the 3rd century AD, a significant portion of southern Japan had coalesced into a centralised power structure based around the Yamato region, which was ruled under a system headed by a monarch known as the Emperor. Much of Japan's early history would be shaped and influenced by cultures from the Asian mainland, with Buddhism being introduced to the region in the year 552 from Korea, and later in 645. A series of reforms, known as the Taika reforms, being implemented to remodel the political landscape of the country and mirror the Chinese system, based around an imperial court. This court initially did not have a permanent home and was moved to a different location with each passing emperor. That was until 794, when Emperor Kanmu decided to fix the capital in one place, modern-day Kyoto, thereby initiating the beginning of the Heian period, which was to last for almost 50 years. Over time, however, the imperial court became grandiose and too focused on internal politics, neglecting proper governance of the country outside of the capital and greatly weakening its own authority. As a consequence, the land that was formerly under the control of the emperor began to gradually slip into the hands of local noble elites, which led to the emergence of a feudal system where power was decentralized and not centered on the imperial court in Kyoto. This decline in the central authority of the state led to powerful regional warrior clans like the Taira and Minamoto grow in strength. Backed by the military might of their samurai warriors, they were ultimately able to challenge the dominance of the emperor during the Heiji rebellion of 1160, which was sparked by disagreement over who should inherit the imperial throne. This in turn escalated into the Genpei War of 1180-1185, with the Minamoto clan, headed by its faction leader, Yusuke. The war was a result of the war between the imperial and the emperor, and the Taira clan, led by the Taira clan, eventually winning over their rivals with a new and separate military government, based in the city of Kamakura, far away from the imperial court of the emperor in Kyoto. Yoritomo was able to go further and convince the emperor Gotoba to grant him the title of shogun, or great general, in 1192, effectively making him the de facto ruler of all Japan and initiating a period of military rule called the Shogun era, in which he would have the power to rule Japan and the capital of the country, and between the two, he would have the power to make the country and the leaders the best. It is the same thing for the Taira clan, which was in the late 18th century. It was the time of the Shogun era that the Taira clan was under the rule of the Taira clan, called the Shogunate, that was to last for the next 700 years. The fighting abilities of the samurai would soon be put to the test once again at the beginning of the 13th century, when one of the largest empires in history turned its attention towards conquering Japan. In 1265, the Mongol Empire, headed by Kublai Khan, demanded that Japan submit to him as a vassal state, but after receiving no response, the Mongol leader began to plan a full-scale invasion of the country. The Mongol forces landed on the island of Kyushu in 1274 and met a determined, although significantly smaller, force of samurai in battle. Despite being severely outnumbered, the tide turned in favour of the Japanese defenders when a powerful typhoon, called the kamikaze or divine wind, suddenly swept through the region and destroyed practically all of the Mongol fleet. The Mongols attempted a second invasion in 1281, but remarkably faced the exact same outcome as what had befallen their predecessors some seven years earlier, with their forces being wiped out by yet another typhoon. Although they had successfully seen off the threat of invasion, Japan's defensive efforts had nevertheless almost bankrupted the treasury of the Shogunate, and consequently, many of the samurai were not paid for their services. This greatly soured relations between the military government and the samurai clans, and so, in 1333, Emperor Goh Daigo launched the Shogunate. The Shogunate was the most powerful military force in the world. The Shogunate was the most powerful military force in the world. The Shogunate was the most powerful military force in the world. The Shogunate was the most powerful military force in the world. A vast majority of the Shogunate was in government, and the Japanese army was being distributed to Shanghai. The Japanese army has not been sent to the capital for decades, the Temin family, but it was a long long time since the Shogunate's death. In 1831, Goh Daigo established the Shogunate. In 1833, the Shogunate and the imperial court of Kyoto managed a coup with the aim of restoring power to reside with him as emperor, and the imperial court in Kyoto. Despite being successful in this endeavor, this state of affairs did not last long. For just five years later in 1338, Goh Daigo himself was overthrown in another coup, which restored the power of the Shogun under the new leadership of Ashikaga Takaiji. Even though the shogun's authority had been restored, actual power within Japan was retained amongst the regional samurai clans, whose feudal lords, called daimyos, directly controlled the land for themselves. These clans would often forge alliances and plot against one another to alter the balance of power within the country as they saw fit, which more often than not resulted in open civil war. 