Hello, my friends. Welcome back to Storyline English. It's so good to have you here. Let's take a breath together. Now, imagine for a moment you are standing on a cold hill in Europe. The wind is quiet, the sky is gray, and in front of you, a young man looks out at the world. He is not tall. He does not look powerful. But inside his mind, something is burning. A fire. A dream. A question that will change history forever. Who is this man? And how did a boy from a small island become one of the most famous people who ever lived? Stay with me, because today, we are going to travel back in time together. We are going to listen to one of the greatest stories in all of human history. This is the story of Napoleon Bonaparte. And it begins on a small, quiet island. Far from the power. Far from the glory. But full of something important. Full of hunger. Full of purpose. Are you ready? Then let us begin. The year was 1769. On a small island called Corsica in the Mediterranean Sea, a baby boy was born. His name was Napoleone di Bonaparte. Corsica was not a rich or powerful place. It was a small island, far from the great cities of Europe. The people there were proud, but they were simple. They lived simple lives. And this baby boy, this small and quiet child, was born into a family that was not very wealthy. His father, Carlo, was a lawyer. His mother, Letizia, was a strong and serious woman. She raised her children with discipline. She taught them to work hard. She taught them that life is not easy, and that you must fight for everything you want. Napoleon Bonaparte was the son of a rich, wealthy, and good man. He was the son of a rich, good man. Napoleon Bonaparte was the son of a rich, good man. Napoleon Bonaparte was the son of a rich, second of eight children. Life in the family home was busy and sometimes difficult. But young Napoleon was different from the other children. He was serious. He was focused. And from a very young age, he loved to read. He read books about great leaders. He read about wars and battles and history. He was quiet, but his mind was always moving, always thinking, always dreaming. And then, when Napoleon was just nine years old, something happened that would change everything. His father made a very important decision. And that decision would send young Napoleon far, far away from his island home. But where was he going? And where was he going? What would he find there? When Napoleon was nine years old, his father sent him to France. To a school for soldiers. A military school. For a young boy from a small island, this was a big journey. France was a powerful country. A rich country, full of noise and history and culture. But for Napoleon, it was also a lonely place. He was different. From the other boys. He spoke French with a strong Corsican accent. The other boys laughed at him. They called him names. They said he was not really French. He was an outsider. And Napoleon felt this deeply. But he did not cry. He did not give up. Instead, he studied harder. He became very good at mathematics. He loved geography and history. He read everything he could find. And slowly, something began to grow inside him. Not just knowledge, but confidence. A quiet, strong confidence. He began to feel that he was not less than the other boys. He was different. And different, he believed, was something special. He was not the most popular boy at school. But he was one of the most focused. One of the most serious. And when he graduated from the military school in Paris at the age of 16, he was ready. Ready to become a soldier. Ready to begin his journey. But the world he was stepping into was about to become very dangerous. France was changing. And the change was coming fast. It was the late 1780s. France was in trouble. The poor people of France were very angry. They had no food. They had no money. And the king and the rich people lived in beautiful palaces and ate wonderful food. The people said, this is not fair. And in 1789, the French Revolution began.